The evir package is an R port of Alexander McNeil's S library     
EVIS. This file documents the main changes from the current 
S version. 


User-level Changes

1. There are no irregular time series objects in R; appropriate
   alterations have therefore been made, in particular, to the
   functions gev, gumbel, exindex, pot and plot.pot.

2. An extra argument has been added to the functions gpd.q and 
   gpd.sfall to avoid side effects. The functions plot.gpd,
   tailplot and plot.pot invisibly return an object which 
   should be passed to the extra argument (see the help files
   for details).

3. The argument ... has been included in many functions, mainly
   for control of the optimization function optim, but also for
   graphics parameters or for generic/method consistency.

4. A table is returned invisibly in the functions quant and 
   shape, rather than having a logical formal argument `table'.

5. In the functions decluster the formal argument `gap' has been
   changed to `run'. Furthermore, the `run' argument in decluster
   and pot represents a number of observations/days (see the help
   file for details).


Internal Changes

1. The first formal argument of plot.gev, plot.gpd and 
   plot.gpdbiv is now `x', for generic/method consistency.

2. When nllh is infinite 1e+06 is returned, rather than NA.

3. The R function match.arg is being used within hill, gpd 
   and gpd.q, for added bullet proofing with alternate 
   character arguments. 

4. The function hess is no longer needed, as the hessian 
   matrix is returned by the optimization function optim.


Bug Fixes (Code)

1. Moment estimators used as starting values in the functions 
   gev and gumbel have been corrected. 


Bug Fixes (Documentation)

1. Documented example for gpdbiv does not work; the offending
   code `interpret.gpdbiv(out)' has been altered.  

2. Documentation link to hillplot in documentation files shape,
   exindex and findthresh has been corrected to hill.  

3. Documentation for hill corrected; omitted ci.p argument and
   correctly documented ci argument.

4. Formal arguments for dgpd, pgpd and emplot are now consistent 
   with documentation.



